# 4月14日周一教案

## 教学目标

1. Understand the definition and properties of complex conjugate pair.
2. Capable of calculating conjugate pair sum $z+z^*$ and multiplication $zz^*$, and use them to convert complex numbers to real numbers.
3. Understand the definition of Argand diagrams.
4. Capable of draw complex numbers on an Argand diagram.

## 教学过程

### 旧识回顾

1. Composition of complex numbers: real part + imaginary part.
2. Operation on complex numbers: +/-: real +/- real, imaginary +/- imaginary; $\times/\div$: **remember** $i^2=-1$.

###  新知讲解

#### 1.3 Complex Conjugation

- Any complex number $z=a+bi$ has a **complex conjugate** defined as $z^*=a-bi$. Together they are called a **complex conjugate pair**.
- **Example 7** shows that the values of $z+z^*$ and $zz^*$ are both real numbers.
- **Example 8** demonstrates the solution to a division between two complex numbers by multiplying denominator's conjugate on both the nominator and denominator.

##### Exercise 1D

- Problem 11: move the term $4+2i$ to the other side of the equation and solve for it using complex conjugate.
- Problem 14

#### 1.4 Argand Diagrams

- Complex numbers can be represented on the 2-dimensional coordinate called an **Argand diagram**
- $x$-axis represents real part: **real axis**; $y$-axis represents imaginary part: **imaginary axis**.
- $z=x+iy$ is represented on point $\textit{\textbf{P}}(x,y)$.
- $z=x+iy$ can also be represented as a vector on an Argand diagram, so operations can be shown with the form of vectors.
- **Example 10** shows that operations on complex numbers can be represented graphically on Argand diagram as operations on vectors.
- **Example 11**: notice the vector changes direction with negative sign.

##### Exercise 1E

**Challenge**: write $z^6=1$ as $(z^3-1)(z^3+1)=0$, and solve for three distinct roots for $z^3-1=0$ and $z^3+1=0$, respectively. For part c, point out that the module for complex roots as vectors are 1 for all roots, and link this to the next section 1.5.
